#summary Overview of Baetle
= Introduction =

Baetle stands for Bug And Enhancement Tracking LanguagE. It is an ontology that describes what bug repositories such as Bugzilla, Jira and others do.

The aim of this is to enable a number of things:
  * SPARQL end points on a bug database that can be queried
  * Bugs in one open source project that refer to bugs in other open source projects, and that specify their dependency on these
  * A format for bug databases to exchange their bug data
  * Relating bugs to software artifacts so that these issues can be tracked
  * others?

= Licence =

An ontology such as this is of no use if it is not done communally, fully openly and without any desire to collect royalties of any sort from anyone. This is a language to help diverse groups communicate. As such it should belong to everyone. Currently the license is new BSD. A CC license seems to be very common with Ontology developers. Probably it should be both. A CC license for the ontology and a BSD license for the testing code.

= History =

This idea has been developing for some time.  Henry Story (bblfish) first outlined the advantages such an ontology can have in [http://onesearch.sun.com/search/blog/index.jsp?col=blog&charset=utf-8&weblog=bblfish&qt=video Goolge Video introduces the semantic web]. The first details of this ontology were written out in the blog entry [http://blogs.sun.com/bblfish/entry/baetle_bug_and_enhancement_tracking Baetle: Bug And Enhancement Tracking LanguagE]

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages